[Music]
but now they mock at me men younger than
I whose fathers I disdained to put with
the dogs of my flock indeed what profit
is the strength of their hands to me
their vigor has perished they are gone
from warmth and famine fleeing late to
the wilderness desolate and waste to
pluck mallow by the bushes and groom
tree roots for their food they were
driven out from among men they shouted
at them as at a thief they had to live
in the clefts of the valleys in caves of
the earth and the rocks among the bushes
they braid under the nettles they
nestled they were sons of fools yes sons
of vile men they were scourge from the
land and now I am their taunting song
yes I am their by word they abhor me
they keep far from me they do not
hesitate to spit in my face because he
has loosed my bowstring and afflicted me
they have cast off restraint before me
at my right hand the rabble arises they
push away my feet and they raise against
me their ways of destruction
and break up my path they promote my
calamity they have no helper may come as
broad breakers under the ruinous storm
they roll along carriers are turned upon
me they pursue my honoured as the wind
and my prosperity has passed like a
cloud and now my soul is poured out
because of my plight the days of a
fiction take hold of me my bones are
pierced in me at night and my gnawing
pains take no rest my great force my
garment is disfigured it binds me about
is the cover of my coat he has cast me
into the mire and I have become like
dust and ashes
I cry out to you but you do not answer
me I stand up and you regard me but you
have become cruel to me with the
strength of your hand you oppose me you
lift me up to the wind and cause me to
ride on it you spy on my success but I
know that you will bring me to death and
to the house appointed for all living
surely he would not stretch out his hand
against a heap of ruins if they cry out
when he destroys it if I not wept for
him who is in trouble has not my soul
grieve for the poor but when I looked
for good evil came to me and when I
waited for light and came darkness my
heart is in turmoil and cannot rest days
of affliction confront me I go about
mourning but not in the Sun I stand up
in the Assembly and cry out for help I
am a brother of jackals and the
companion of ostriches my skin grows
black and falls from me my bones burn
with fever my heart is turned to
mourning and my flute to the voice of
those who
[Music]